SINA
When you think about machine learning or AI using
databases, one of the most obvious questions is
what's in those databases? And do we want to
expose that to in the context
of our cyber unaffiliated
nodes in this context to machine
learning, you can use encryption,
to make data unavailable to the
general public that may try to
look at that data. But at the same
time, if you put it on something like
Aleo, you can prove things about
that data that are true or false,
or that fall within certain parameters.
And leverage that data without actually giving
away identifying information.
CRAIG
Data privacy continues to be a
challenge for companies deploying AI,
particularly the privacy of training
data, which constitutes some of the most valuable
IP for companies as algorithms and compute
become increasingly commoditized.
CRAIG
This week,
I talk with Sina Kian, chief operating officer of
Aleo, a platform for building private blockchain
based applications. Aleo
supports zero knowledge proofs,
a powerful tool to verify the correctness of a
computation without revealing the input data,
or the computation itself.
This makes Aleo particularly
useful in machine learning,
where sensitive data such as
medical records or financial information needs
to be kept private but has tremendous potential
for training AI systems.
CRAIG
Before we begin, I want to mention our sponsor
NetSuite, Oracle's cloud-based enterprise resource
planning software to help any business
manage their financials operations and
customer relationships
in a single platform.
For the first time in NetSuite 22 years
as the number one cloud financial system,
you can defer payment on a full
implementation for six months;
no payment, no interest for six months
for a full implementation of Oracle's NetSuite.
To take advantage of this
unprecedented financing offer,
go to www.netsuite.com/eyeonai.
That's EYEONAI all run together.
Now here’s Sina.
CRAIG
Let’s talk about Aleo. I've had a
little bit of a look, but why don't
we start by having you introduce
yourself and then introduce Aleo.
And then I'll get into some questions.
SINA
Okay, great. So, my name is Sina
Kian. I'm General Counsel and COO
here at Aleo. I graduated from
law school, after law school,
I clerked on the DC circuit for two
years and then the Supreme Court for
Chief Justice Roberts. I practice law
at a firm called Wilmer Hale here in DC
for a couple of years. Then
I changed gears, actually
went into the finance world, worked at
Blackstone for about four years. And
during that time, in an investment
capacity, I got very interested in
the technology behind blockchain
generally and I met the folks over
here at Aleo and got very interested
in what they're doing. I joined
initially as VP of strategy and have since been
promoted to COO and General Counsel. So happy to
talk about Aleo itself.
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
As background, I was also an advisor
to the Privacy and Civil Liberties
Oversight Board, so long been
very interested in issues
around privacy and how they work
consistent with sort of national security and
other public policy goals that we have. So
Aleo. If you take a step back,
if you think about blockchains,
generally, if the internet allowed
unaffiliated notes, which is to
say computers, phone phones, other
nodes like that, to communicate with
each other, even though they're
unaffiliated, and have no reason
to trust each other, blockchain sort
of took that a step further and allow
those unaffiliated nodes to
cooperate on a task and
specifically on updating a ledger.
Now, the mechanism by which they
did that is basically yelling the
answer out loud, which is one node
will say, hey, Craig sent Sina one
Bitcoin or one ether, one, whatever,
and all the other nodes write it
down. And so that's how they update
the ledger in terms of like data.
Now, if you and I crack started
talking about what are use cases for ledgers, we'd
start talking about, obviously, the financial use
cases, bank accounts, that sort of
thing. Maybe your real estate titles,
we start talking about healthcare
records, you know, vaccine records,
maybe voting databases. And for
almost all those use cases, if not
all of them, you want some level of
data confidentiality and privacy.
Which is to say you don't want to
yell the answer to the entire
world of unaffiliated nodes that you
don't know and maybe don't have great
reason to trust. And so, what we're
doing at Aleo is we're allowing the
same thing to happen. But for the
answers to be encrypted, which is
to say we yell encrypted answers
out loud. And you can still verify
that everything being said is true, you just don't
know what the actual content is, as a completely
unaffiliated node as a user as a program, you may.
But in terms of what you broadcast to the entire
world that's encrypted. And that
unlocks a lot more use cases. So,
we're very excited about that. So
that's very long answer.
To help explain what we're doing.
CRAIG
Yeah, yeah. Well, that's interesting.
And you're specifically targeting
machine learning solutions. Is that
right?
SINA
The overlap between what we're doing
and machine learning, machine learning
and AI is really, really
interesting. Because there
are a couple of there are a couple of
interfaces here. The first is training
data. When you think about machine learning or AI
using databases, one of the most obvious questions
is what's in those databases? And
do we want to expose that to in
the context of something about an
affiliated nodes in this context
to machine learning. And so, one
technique that you could use is
something called homomorphic
encryption. Another one is
federated learning. Another one isn't actually
exactly what we're doing, which is using a kind of
cryptography called zero knowledge proofs to prove
information from data without actually revealing
the underlying data, which would allow machine
learning to train without necessarily having
exposure to the kinds of data
we don't want, machines we
don't quite understand yet to have access to.
CRAIG
Well, just to slow down a little bit. So,
I'm familiar with homomorphic encryption.
And I'm, I'm familiar
with federated learning.
How is this different from either of those.
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
SINA
So, zero knowledge proof is
basically an application of
cryptography that allows a user to prove
something about a set of facts without
actually sharing that underlying
set of facts. So, it's a particular
and as a statement has three features. First,
the proof has to be complete. Meaning if someone
provides the proof, we know with certainty that
the underlying statement being proven as true. The
second is, it must be impossible for someone to
provide a zero-knowledge proof of a particular
statement if that statement
is false. And then finally,
and this is the key one that distinguishes it from
some of the other techniques we're talking about,
is the proof must be zero knowledge, meaning the
proof must not reveal anything about the
statement other than the fact
that the statement is true. And
so homomorphic encryption overlaps with that very
significantly, but it's its own distinct field.
CRAIG
And in a in a in a
machine learning training scenario, how
does that work? I mean, federated learning,
you're sending the model
out to different data pools,
that various owners have, and you’re training and
then coming back and updating models so that that
data never has to leave the possession of the
owner. And the only thing that
that goes back are the weights from
the training exercise. In this case,
where is the model? If you're training a model.
And where's the data? And, yeah, how does it work?
SINA
Okay, let's take
a very simple example. Imagine that we are
looking at certain kinds of health data. And
we want to know, if the health
data shows correlate, or there's
something we can learn about it based
on age, which is people under 21. They
have certain traits over 21, they
have certain traits over 65, do
they have certain traits. And in that context, you
could actually look at, so I can hear baby in the
background.
CRAIG
That's okay, that's okay.
SINA
So, in that context, you can
actually look at the health
traits you care about and get proofs about the
age of the person without actually
knowing anything else about the
person. So, if you imagine a human
doing it, they may pull out files,
they may see, for example, things like
the race, the name, the ethnicity,
gender, and they may allow that to
affect their thinking. But in a,
if you're having like a machine learning
context, where the only thing you want
to do is isolate, sort of a scan
result and the date of birth, then
you can actually have it only
prove that okay, here are the
people who are over 21. And here's what's
happening and is there a correlation or
is there not without actually
ever having to look at anything
else? And so, in a way, you can
sort of think of it as helping
to blind the learning, so that it doesn't
consider factors we don't want it to consider.
CRAIG
Yeah. And the data in that case resides,
say in our hospital database.
SINA
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
Well, so if you're talking about
a blockchain, you can actually put
it literally on a blockchain and then it
can be it can be leveraged by hospitals,
insurance companies, anything
except they won't actually have
access to the personal underlying
information. So, it's a matter of how
you structure the data. You can
have it the traditionally sort
of be on a database where it's like
managed. In that case, you don't need a
blockchain to accomplish anything that I'm talking
about at all. You can leverage something like zero
knowledge proofs without a
blockchain. Or you can look at
a world where you put it on a blockchain, it's
completely encrypted, which means that it's, no
one can go to the blockchain and see your personal
information or this health risks are these
health records. But you can't,
if you opt in, provide proofs of
certain characteristics about
it, so that it can be studied. As
a way of allowing your users to have a lot
more sovereignty over their data,
what can you post, how can it be
exposed, and then you can, you can
combine that with machine
learning to be more precise
about what you're studying, and what you're
looking at, when you're looking at data sets,
as opposed to allowing machine
learning to just go at it,
come back with whatever it may come back with.
Because what we know already, is the data sets
aren't totally neutral, they reflect human biases.
And we may allow, we may allow or permit machine
learning algorithms to adopt
those human biases without
even understanding that we're doing that. So,
this allows us to adopt more safeguards against
something like that.
SINA
Think of it as using encryption to obscure what
you're putting onto a database the same way your
passwords are obscured. Same
way, all sorts of sensitive
information is obscure, like your credit card
information, when you send it to the internet,
you're not sending your literal
credit card information. It’s
hashes so that if your data packet
is intercepted along the way,
people don't actually have your credit
card number. So similarly, you can use encryption,
to make data unavailable
to the general public that
may try to look at that data.
But at the same time, if you
put it on something like a Leo, you can prove
things about that data that are true or false,
or that fall within certain
parameters. And leverage that
data without actually giving away
identifying information. And you
can tailor the parameters of that
however you like. It's totally
an open design space. And so, this is
very new, it's very, very, very early.
And it's kind of ripe for creative thinking, given
that you have this tool that allows you to upload
information, protect that information
such that as with encryption,
and yet be able to draw inferences
from it and understand facts and
correlations from it.
SINA
How do you best leverage this?
One of the interesting things? So,
there are two things going on here.
There's the machine learning aspect, and there's
a blockchain aspect. What's interesting about the
blockchain aspect is how it allows you to
leverage something that doesn't
have to live on one platform.
So, it's not just one hospital doing
this. Every hospital can put their
data together in something like this.
And they can all benefit from all of
the data that they're cumulatively
providing, without having to reveal
anything about their patients the world without
having to compromise their patients privacy
and getting
in with getting
their patients consensus. And they can allow
their patients to retain ongoing sovereignty
over this, which is the withdrawal
to do whatever they want to own their
data. And so, thinking about
how a system like that enables
better forms of machine learning, I
think is just a totally ripe design
space not only for products just fill us
perfectly at the computer science level,
at the at the level of
theory,
and that level of like actual practice. It's
just totally new. And I think it's very,
very exciting. That's
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
just on the training part. There's
a lot more that helps with effort
hinted at this with actually like the
output, how you can help control
what factors are being looked at.
SINA
And
also, so take one of the products we're working
on that we think is a good use case for our
blockchain, which is digital identity.
We allow through this product,
folks to be able to upload facts about
their digital identity can be their
passport and scan your passport
onto a blockchain. And then you can
leverage that passport going forward
across platforms completely agnostic
to the platform, which is say,
right now we all take for granted
the status quo, if you go to Amazon,
you give them your information,
you go to Walmart, you give them your information,
you go to some random website, you give them
your information, but you could
actually just have passport grade,
digital identification, that you leverage
at each of these websites without actually having
to reveal much more about yourself, depending on
the website, depending on the nature of
your relationship with that.
Now, combine that with what's
going on in something like machine learning,
it doesn't have to just be your passport,
it could be your
vaccine records,
it could be anything. And then you can allow
machine learning to, to you can allow a
more competitive machine learning landscape, which
is to say you can take that same data to multiple
different algorithms and allow
them all to train and try to come
up with something from it. As opposed to
having the data live on just Google or
just Microsoft, we're one company,
we're all sort of relying on one
company to do its best, but
that, and it's a much more
open-source view of the world. It's a much more
competitive view of the world. You know, one of
the troubling things when you look at AI is how
singular, it seems to feel, you know,
one or two, or just a handful of
companies potentially can own the
space because of their access to data. But if you
can open up that data in a way that is privacy
preserving for the people who whose
data it is, then you can allow a
lot more competition. And if you
sort of believe classical theory,
competition is going to result in
better innovation, better products, and
more responsiveness to the to the policy
concerns that many have raised around AI.
CRAIG
Are you familiar with Oasis Labs?
SINA
I've heard of them. Yeah. Yeah.
CRAIG
Because it sounds similar. They have
a combination of secure hardware and cryptography,
cryptographic techniques to allow
privacy preserving computation on
the blockchain. But they have kind
of a blend of, of strategies.
So, from for Aleo’s users,
all of this happens through a web interface or
through an API. And
does. Yeah, explain how it works.
SINA
We're building an open-source protocol that we're
hoping to launch later this year. When this open-
source protocol launches, are
our audience for that it's
actually developers, it's people who build the
applications we're talking about. We're not, for
example, building a healthcare application at the
moment. But I believe as people learn about
what we're building, they'll
start to see the potential for
things, the things that we're talking about,
which is okay, you can leverage this open
source blockchain,
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
and you can build an application
on top of it, that uses that, for
example, funnels certain kinds of data,
puts it on the blockchain in
a highly secure way, and then
allows it to be leveraged going forward. And
one of the reasons I came up with healthcare is
everyone kind of intuitively understands there's
something wrong with the way healthcare records
work. You have your primary care physician, when
you're younger, maybe you move maybe they retire,
it's very hard to get your
records. A lot of people
don't know if they were vaccinated
when they were vaccinated,
what they're vaccinated against. In that
environment to actually get together, okay, who is
everyone who's had a screen for colon cancer? You
know, what are accuracy rates? Who's doing it
better? It's very hard, but because the data is so
fragmented, and one of the reasons it's good for
the data to be fragmented is because it's privacy
preserving, if at all, the doctor just said,
Hey, everyone, here's the scan
for my latest patient, then then
your information would be sort of
revealed to the whole world So that
that's not an attractive sort of way
of creating machine learning,
enabling that data. But what I'm talking
about, if there are developers out
there listening to this, and they're thinking, Oh,
that's my wheelhouse. They're our audience because
they should be building experimenting with how to
do this. And when I say this, I mean, create an
application that allows you to
upload this specific kind of data,
or any kind of health data allows you to
leverage it, and, and gives you the
benefit of access to the data
without actually compromising any
individual's personal information.
SINA
In our laws aren't completely foreign
to this. Our census law, for example,
allows the Census Bureau to
analyze data and to publish
reports on that data, so long as it's
functionally anonymizing, which is to
say, the nature of the publication
doesn't give away, it's not too so
specific that it would give away who
it's talking about. Right. So,
collecting data and preserving its
privacy while benefiting from it is not
foreign to us. This is just a totally new
tool that I think is going to be really
enhancing for the for the AI
and machine learning space.
CRAIG
Yeah. And it's open source. So,
the business plan for Aleo is to open
source it, get it widely adopted,
and then offer sort of expert services
or consulting on specific applications.
SINA
Exactly. Right. Yeah.
CRAIG
Yeah. Who's
the competition? I mean, are there other
open-source projects like this? I know, this has
been an active space. I mentioned Oasis Labs.
I've had Dawn Song, who's the Berkeley professor
behind it on the podcast. But I, frankly, haven't
looked at any of this for a long time. Is there a
competition?
SINA
I first of all, I think I would do terrible
injustice to all the really talented
people out there working on this
from one angle or another. So,
I would be reluctant sort of have a
list right now I don't think of it as a
competitive space. What do I mean by that? I
sort of think of it as an innovative space where
everyone's trying to build out what the
technology can enable at an infrastructure
level. And then what's
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
enabled on top of that is really,
really incredible. And then that
sort of when competition kicks in. So
now when I see other people
working in this space, I sort
of view them as really important in a sense of
partners, because they're doing R&D, they're doing
the marketing. And the reality is like, there are
computer scientists, very smart computer science,
like Dan Boneh over at Stanford, who know this
inside and out. But the world of developers,
they're still they're still
learning about this. And so anyone
kind of introducing these tools to
the world explaining these are tools
you can use, I view as sort of a
partner, it's just too early to
think of it sort of being like, who are
the competitors, you know, around the
internet and the 1980s, like you could
conceptualize of competitors, but just a
little too early to think of
the space that way.
CRAIG
What is ZK ML? I see on your, on your website.
SINA
Yes, this z k
in our space is a common way of saying zero
knowledge, zero knowledge proof. So, this is
your knowledge of machine
learning, which is a machine
learning based on an algorithm that does not
have access to the underlying data can only
draw inferences from it.
CRAIG
Yeah. So where are you in the project right
now you say that it has not been launched
are? Yeah, yeah,
SINA
We're in the midst of our testnet
three. And so, we just opened up
the ability to deploy applications. And
we've had many hundreds of applications
deployed on our testnet. So far,
it's working really well. The
point of our testnet is to identify
bugs to invite an open-source
community to sort of begin the project of
making this a global open-source project as
opposed to something that we own are particularly
important for.
Because as you said, we'd like to pivot to
applications and enabling use cases on top of
it.
CRAIG
Yeah. And the is how wide is
or how large is your developer
base right now, people that are
participating?
SINA
Yeah, it's,
you know, there are lots of different ways to
measure it. There's like the programs that are
being deployed. There are the nodes that are
being run so many 1000s. Right now, what I find
heartening is that At, there's a
very enthusiastic core group of
folks thinking about zero knowledge on
our testnet on other in other projects,
and that group seems to be getting
larger, and the contributors
are increasing in what feels to be exponential
with exponential numbers. So, we're sort of very
heartened by all the trends we're seeing there.
And then the number of people who are not computer
scientists who are familiar with
zero knowledge proofs is increasing,
the Treasury Department released
a report referencing them,
the Office of Science and Technology
Policy at the White House is, is getting
familiar with this technology. So, the
audience for this is growing really,
really fast. And we're, we're
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
very excited about that. And
I think the machine is time for the
machine learning world to recognize the
Venn diagram overlap here,
because it's very interesting.
SINA
I mean, let me give you another way that this can
be leveraged that I think intersects with machine
learning and, and the user experience online. So
right now, if you go to Amazon or Walmart from the
United States, it through your IP address
roughly knows not only you’re
in the United States, but like
maybe what city you're in. And
maybe even more specific than that,
and you don't think too much about
it. But the products that it shows you
are a function of that. So, what's
available to you, given where you
are. And if you went to France,
you have a slightly different
experience. And if you went to another
country, maybe you have a very different
experience or no experience at
all. So that's the sad theater
currently.
SINA
And by extension, any machine learning model on
top of that, understands where you are, and gives
you an experience that's somewhat tailored
to that. We can also build it, so that let's
just take the digital
identity concept.
Amazon or Walmart, or the next website
would know that you're under 12, or under
18, or over 21. And you wouldn't think too much
about it. But what's available changes, because
alcohol on the website is certain
adult content on the website,
or dangerous things on the website, you
know, things that 12-year-old shouldn't be playing
with on the website. And as a result of machine,
machine learning that's built on top of that
could also be leveraging that
information. Again, without
knowing name, date of birth, anything
specific to the individual, just that,
hey, it's maybe certain things
are age appropriate,
maybe we don't want machine learning for
children of a certain age. Or maybe if
we do want it, we want to tailor it a certain way
we have certain public policy goals that matter.
SINA
So having
credentials like this that can be leveraged and
that the entire internet would be responsive to
has the trickle-down effect of
any sort of any sort of what
I'll probably call machine learning on top of
that, sort of watching the user experience, seeing
how the user interacts, would be sensitive to that
particular criterion. And so, you can imagine when
you're thinking about TikTok or social media, this
could be very important, especially to parents.
CRAIG
Yeah, it's, so that application relies on
kind of the passport idea, the
ID, the ID, for an individual that
then is accessed by whoever wants to access
that individual. I mean, how would that work?
SINA
Yeah, so like,
think about how it currently works, which is
you go to buy wine or website, they ask you
are you 21, you click yes, that's the end of the,
you know, at the end of the
questioning, which probably
good enough security for wine, we probably don't
have an epidemic of minors ordering wine on
websites, but where you have greater concerns,
maybe you want something more than just data that
the individual can arbitrarily
input. You know, they know they
just need to pick something that says
they're over 18 or 21. We'll just
pick it. And so, you can have a lot of
fake identities. I mean, this applies
in so many contexts. By the way, Craig, if you
look over at like ticket sales, something like
40% of ticket
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
sales are sold to bots. So put
aside a human lying about itself. It's
just like, something that's trained to
lie to the actual, to the actual
merchants, you can replace that with
something where you have to get
passport grade identification,
which can’t be faked, digitally
signed by the US government can be
authenticated against the US government database.
And that would be the identifying credential. And
so, the ability of a child to suggest or over
21 or the ability of someone to
suggest their US citizen when
in fact they're, you know, a North
Korean citizen. I think it limits
that very significantly because as you're
talking about passport grade security,
where some of these websites just
have, you know, click through
your 21.
CRAIG
And to develop that. And that that there would
be a key or something that someone would use
SINA
maybe a combination
of a private key, which is specifically the
individual. And LiveScan, which is to say
something to so if I had
your private key, you know,
the LiveScan would show actually, it's not Craig,
even though he has Craig's private key. And in the
case of parents, you can imagine introducing multi
party computation or other things,
so that maybe there even two or
three keys are necessary for login,
it's just a matter of how you
again, it's open design space,
it's how you want to design it. But this is
introducing the ability to have one,
digital identification that is
passed per grade across all of these
websites, as opposed to you go to TikTok,
you share your passport information
with them, you go to,
you know, Instagram,
you share your password, sharing your
passport information with everyone. And
by the way, none of these websites really want
to be responsible for collecting that kind of
information.
Right.
SINA
Now, on the other side of it,
what's I think particularly interesting
for policymakers and for and for a lot
of parents out there is that once
you introduce technology like this,
the excuse for, for example, a
website that has like adult
content to not be screening out minors
goes down very, very significantly,
they can't say, oh, we didn't
know they tricked us, it's,
you have a way to figure this out. Right. And that
also applies to anyone collecting data, which is
to say their excuse for holding your data in this
honeypot that hackers find very attractive
goes down. Once you introduce
technology like this, that's no
longer necessary. Now let's go over to
like AI what we're specifically talking
about. Right now, when we
talk about data privacy,
it's typically sort of privacy policy, you
know, long scroll down thing about what
they're going to do with your
data that many people don't read
the click through, they move on. But you
can start introducing data minimization,
again, not foreign to the Census
Bureau. And it's just a concept
that says, you have to use a reasonably available
technologies to minimize your, your what you're
doing with people's privacy,
right. And in many contexts,
I think that's going to be very attractive, it's
going to be attractive from a product design
perspective, which is to say
you even if policymaker said
nothing about it, users may have preferences.
But from the perspective of policymakers who,
you know,
in at least western values, we
care a lot about people's privacy,
what that means for their dignity. And
so, we are not going to have like our
government go and collect everyone's
data and like, feed it into
some sort of machine learning exercise. We were
maybe other countries would do that, but we
wouldn't. Now, this is a very
interesting way of saying, okay,
well, we can continue with the machine
learning, we can actually pioneer this
technology, but we don't have to
invade people's privacy to do it.
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
CRAIG
What is it going to take for,
for widespread adoption,
which is always the case with these things? I
mean, I've, I've listened to so many
ideas or proposals that sound great,
but until you reach the tipping
point where it's widespread, and generally
accepted, it remains kind of a niche.
SINA
Yeah, I think that's
completely right. And there's a difference
between having theoretical conversations
and comprehend, and actual solutions
that are adopted in practice. If you
look at zero knowledge,
proof, there were invented
as a concept in the 1980s, five, six
years ago, the time it took to do one
transaction for zero knowledge proof orders of
magnitude slower than today. That's a result of
investment in R&D that's happening
in the United States and happening
globally. And that time is going
down. And it's scaling better and
better and better and faster. And
what happens with these systems is
as we get better at doing it on
the software side, we can actually
specialize hardware to do it faster and
faster and optimized at the hardware
side. And that's what that's the
transition from having something
like a CPU to the GPU to even
in certain circumstances,
an application specific integrated circuit, which
does one thing but does it very, very fast and
optimized, right.
SINA
So that starts to make this practical
for large scale uses, like whether
it's credit card data, or health
records, that kind of thing. So,
we're getting closer and closer to
technologically of being there. So, if
you think about the internet, when
it first starts and it sort of dial
up and it's very, very slow, and we
could talk about video streaming in
that in that in those days, but it's
you have to get faster and the way
it gets faster is more investment. And
the way to get more investment is to get
more excited about what
it's actually capable of.
So, I think what to answer your question,
what it takes is more people learning
about the potential here, more people
experimenting in the design space,
support from the government
in terms of R&D, and around
privacy enhancing technologies as
a way to enhance how we do AI, AI
and machine learning. And just
more experimentation, as I said,
that will, if this design space proves
itself out, and I think it will,
encourage more investment, and you'll
see it scale better and faster.
SINA
So, from my perspective, when people talk about
something like blockchain, we've long been in that
like 1970s, to 1980s era for the Internet,
which is the concepts have been
introduced. There's this new
and interesting thing we can do.
But it's not quite practical yet.
And we're getting closer. And the only
distinction between in my mind between
the timeline for the Internet and
the timeline for something like
blockchain technology is open-source systems tend
to have a lot more eyes on them, and they tend to
move a little bit faster, right.
So, it's not a small group of
resources are doing it anyone can open up the
coins code or the next projects code and learn
from it and build on it.
CRAIG
Yeah. Has the government expressed interest in
this? Or are you working with any government
agencies to include them in the open-source
project?
SINA
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
Yeah, so the White House Office
of Science and Technology
Policy invited comment letters earlier this
year on privacy enhancing technologies generally.
We issued a comment letter in response to that.
There's a lot of interest on the Hill in terms of
privacy enhancing technologies,
especially as it relates to
machine learning. There's a lot of
interest around digital identity,
I think people understand that we can
do identity better, we can do it in a
way that increases compliance that
increases reliability and also
increases privacy, which is kind of
an interesting combination. Usually,
those concepts are seen as in
tension as it relates to blockchain.
Generally, I think we've been a
little bit tripped up on threshold
questions about, you know,
whether a particular token
is a security or not a security, there are these
open regulatory questions that I have confidence
will resolve over time.
SINA
And I think, especially as it relates
to crypto, there's been a lot of
focus on the asset itself, because it's
invited this speculative, like
speculative frenzy around the value
of something, everyone's heard some
story about how somebody got very rich
off of a Bitcoin or the, you know,
Dogecoin, or the next thing.
And so, a lot of the social
commentary has been around those asset
values. But one of the insights that
we had is, if you look at Bitcoin,
for example, it's not just a ledger,
for Bitcoin, it's a ledger for identity,
each one of those public addresses
is an implied identity. Now, it's
transparent, which means once they
once anyone figures out, you know,
that it's your address, don't know,
your whole transaction history is
not really workable for a lot of
the ledger uses we've talked about. But
if you add a little bit of privacy to
that, you can actually add a lot
of meat to what the identity holds,
and what it says and how it can be
leveraged. And so those are the
insights, I think that will take this
technology to the next level. And I
think everyone's very interested
in that. And they should be.
CRAIG
how does this project intersect with the web 3.0?
Or web three?
SINA
Yeah. If I if I understand the term web
three, charitably, I think what it's
getting at is the ability for nodes,
i.e., computers on the internet,
to hold and transfer digital assets.
In the past, when we think about that,
we sort of had this copy paste problem
that's required an intermediary
which just say, take music. If I
have a song, and I sell you the song,
I can just copy paste it locally
and sell you the song. And so there
now there's two of them, and then the
value of the music plummets because
there's infinite supply. And
one of the things that Bitcoin
did is actually come up with a way to
enforce scarcity without requiring an
intermediary, kind of to own
all of that, because once you
introduce an intermediary to own all that, if
you take, for example, health records, they become
a very powerful, almost monopoly. That is the
owner of records that you don't want them
necessarily to write. So insofar
as web three references the
ability of like nodes, to own assets
transfer assets, were very much
sort of within that definition, in that
this would be a decentralized open-source
project that allows hospitals
or anyone to build on top of it
something where credentials and assets can be
moved around and leveraged without necessarily
needing any particular intermediary.
CRAIG
So, let's presume that this
becomes widely adopted.
From a consumers point of view for the ID, what
would I have to do to get my
ID key and then use it on various websites?
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
SINA
Yeah, so,
if this is adopted, the consumer could use their
phone to scan their passport. Your passport
has a chip that allows it to be to be
scanned, so you can scan and upload
all your information onto one
for like, let's just say there's
a project emerging. It's called like
Aleo ID. You can upload it through Aleo
ID, and then that project Aleo ID would have
to go to, you know, the ecommerce websites, the
wherever and have them integrate so that
when the user shows up to the website,
that underlying ID is
leveraged, for example,
to make sure that content is age appropriate.
CRAIG
So that would require the open-source
project and I presume there's a
there's a foundation in addition
to the private company, is that right?
SINA
Yeah, yeah,
so imagine there's the open-source project,
that's just the layer that exists, then a team
would come a company would come, it
could be for profit, it could be just,
it could be do nonprofit could
be the government.
And they would build an interface that
allows people to say, okay, we're going to
scan our passports onto the blockchain.
And then that company would go to
whoever, Amazon or a
gaming company, right,
these are the gaming companies and
say, okay, the amount of bloodshed or
violence or whatever should
be limited for this age group,
or certain games can't be downloaded by this
age group. And so when you go to that website the
same way, for example, you have single sign on
with like Google or anything, or just you can
even do it as like a the way
IP addresses work, which is,
the user doesn't need to experience anything, you
can just go to the website, leverage that those
credentials, and then get the
appropriate experience based
on his credentials without ever touching the
website, again, hey, I'm Craig, I'm this age,
or, Hey, I'm Sina, you know,
this gender, or this country of
origin, the other things that
are on your passport. So, like,
just to take us like a simple analogy, sort of
visualize what this looks like, in the real world,
you go to an event, and
you're on the you're on the
guest list, and they give you a
wristband, and the wristband indicates,
for example, you're over 21, and
you're on the, on the guest list.
The bartender never asked for your
ID in that context, they just know
from your wristband that
you belong there, and that
you're over 21, without the wristband, you would
show the bartender who you don't know, your name,
your address, your date of birth, the issuance,
issuing state of your ID, all this all this
information has nothing to do
with you getting a drink at an
event. And so, this is kind
of like a digital wristband,
where when you show up, the experience is
tailored based on who you are without actually
having to reveal who you are to your counterparty.
CRAIG
Right. And the and when you say you show up in the
physical case, you're wearing a wristband, in this
case, it's this key that represents
your identity on the blockchain,
you would enter that when you're
registering with the website, or would that be
tied to your I don't know your IP address?
SINA
Three are a couple of ways to do this.
I mean, it could be tied to your actual
particular device. So, you
sign into your device,
right with your with your face scan, and
it could automatically leverage those
credentials. It could be on a per website
basis, the way you do Google single sign on.
There are a lot of
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
them again, it's very early as to
I think it's too early to predict what
the winning product looks like. But
from the user's experience, I would
hope that product is seamless.
I would hope it protects their
privacy, and I hope that it would
help them have an experience online
that's appropriate. especially for
their age, you know, look, again,
nine-year-olds on the internet,
different experience and 40-year-olds
on the internet. And I think those are
things that we can build in reliably
now. And the old excuses about
well, it's impossible to verify age, or it's
prohibitive to those I think are going to
fade away.
SINA
And I also hope that what it
means is, the days of us giving
away our addresses and our dates of birth
and other personal information to hundreds
of websites, none of which exists because they're
particularly good at security, they're ecommerce,
they have different missions, their mission is not
security,
and exposing ourselves in these centralized honey
pots all across the internet, just to have an
internet experience, I hope that we can
look back soon. And see that for what it is,
which is a security
nightmare
that compromises the user experience in totally
unacceptable ways. I mean, when is the last
time anyone even had an emotional response to
a major hack? We've had OPM hacked we've had
those who keep our credit scores hacked, you know,
that says, as much data as you could possibly
want from the perspective of a hacker,
and much of this is needlessly kept.
CRAIG
Yeah, yeah. And then from the point of view of
like a hospital that has a lot
of data that wants to make it
available to a machine-to-machine
learning, training exercise.
They would, there would be some,
SINA
You can
build a mechanism that allows you to do that.
And what I really like about this is that the
mechanism can be agnostic to the machine learning
counterparty, right now, we sort of built a system
that rewards monopolistic or oligopolistic and
says that they can go, and they can go and do the
paperwork of collecting the data. And then
they're the only ones who have a stab at this.
But all of us
know intuitively,
if you stipulate the patient data is protected,
it's better to have 10, 20, 30 companies
competing to do this better. Right. And
we, we can more enable that as we learn
to play with encryption
as a design tool.
So that we can actually invite competition
into machine learning instead of taking for
granted as many do now that the biggest
companies are inherently already the winners.
CRAIG
Now, the what's
the next step for you guys that I mean, if
presumably, you say there's a foundation and
then the company. I mean if people want to
explore this, certainly, they can go to aleo.org.
But I would
guess there is a whole GitHub
page or repository or something
where people can get involved in the
open-source project,
SINA
Open source, there's GitHub,
there's a GitHub repo.
We are testing that is currently live, they can
actually go and deploy applications, you can
simple, very simple
applications, or we welcome more
complex applications. Just to sort of learn how
this works. We have a language called Leo, which
abstracts away a lot of the hard cryptography and
makes it accessible to developers more generally.
They can experiment with Leo. Learn to use
that. We welcome feedback. We welcome any
sort of any
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
sort of feedback, whether it's,
we're looking for bugs, we have a bug
bounty, but we also, what makes it
better from a developer's perspective.
SINA
Because the next steps, our priorities
are to take this from the realm of
computer science and make it
available in the realm of
engineering and developers and people
who are just typical coders, right?
Because then once you open up that audience,
it can go outside of my theorizing about what's
interesting, and they can actually put rubber to
the road and figure out what works from a product
perspective. And I think when it really
gets interesting is when you start
having product managers think
about who are our end users,
what is the best experience for them?
What facilities distribution, the
questions that make this a practical
reality, as opposed to a very neat
computer science breakthrough
that's theoretically interesting.
CRAIG
You know,
as I said, I've talked to people about this over
the last five years, similar kinds of things.
Do
you do have a sense
it's a little bit like autonomous vehicles?
We've been talking about it for a long
time, and we're still waiting. Do you have
a sense when this, whether it's Aleo’s
solution or Oasis Labs
solution or somebody else's
solution? How long it will be before
we're actually using this stuff in our
daily lives?
SINA
Yeah, look, I think it's up to the
open-source community who work on this,
it's up to us, it's up to all the
other projects that are working on this,
to make this more like the internet
in the early 1990s, than the
internet in the late 1970s. Which is to say,
educate people, show them the tools, show them the
possibilities, publish blog posts, thinking about
different solutions. You know, we had one of our
computer scientists, Ian Myers,
published a paper on identity,
we took that paper and used it to build
out a proof of concept around the digital
identity product, which is looking
really attractive already. So,
in some sense, these products are I
think, you know, on a 12-to-18-month
timeline in terms of like being
practically available. Now,
whether teams execute on 12-to-18-month
timeline is a different question.
But I think something like
digital identity is currently
plausible, and is very, very interesting. And it's
something that should be, I think,
a very high priority for governments
in particular, because it's a really
attractive way of making the mess
of the internet in terms of like,
hackers, all the stuff, we've been
talking about the data that's available privacy,
a lot less messy and a lot more user friendly.
SINA
The more complicated things that we've discussed,
which is making healthcare data broadly available
to multiple teams of scientists,
you know, the issue, there is no
less a technological issue, as is the
case with electronic health records,
and more, getting the institutions
that are currently incumbents and
how they own data and how they monetize data.
Sometimes the incentives aren't perfectly aligned
there. And that could be a longer
process. So, there's the technology,
which is like closing in on, on
availability. And from here on out,
I think the main thing is educating
people and increasing its ability to
scale. And then there's just
sort of the real-world dynamics
of what's an easier place to disrupt? Where
are there incumbents who are going to be very
resistant? That sort of thing.
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
CRAIG
Yeah. Are you talking to any of
the big social media platforms?
You know, one of my pet peeves is, is
Twitter because of the enormous amount of sort of
toxic speech that goes on there. And you know, I
wish Elon Musk would require people to register
their Twitter accounts under
their own names. I think it
would, it would, you know, you would see
a lot of that toxic speech disappear.
SINA
It's a great point. I mean,
it's amazing the extent to which the
social media experience has disappointed
many, many people. And it's also
amazing the extent to which not
having control and sovereignty over
our data has been used against us.
If you mentioned in 2010, for
example, that social media would
result in data leakage such
that foreign adversaries can
use that data and leverage it to make us mad
at our neighbors and US yelling about more things,
and the blood pressure of our country to go up. It
just would have seemed a little bit implausible.
How would they do that? Why would we respond that
way? It seems a little silly. And yet,
that's sort of what's happened.
Our data has been rather than like
something we own, it's been turned
against us. The on the pro side,
it's like maybe the advertisements
you see are a little bit more relevant. And on the
con side, you know, the country is more divided,
because they're spiraling with like plots,
and they don't know they're
interacting with bots, and there's a
lot less accountability. So, I think it's
a really, really wise thing to point out.
SINA
And from
our perspective, it would be very attractive to
start leveraging things like identity in a privacy
preserving way that authenticate
what's happening. I mean,
one of the things credit we didn't talk about,
it's a near term risk of what people broadly
call AI is the ability to fake
content. We're all familiar with
faking an identity in the sense
that like, there are all these
bots that are clearly not humans. But there's
also increasingly where we know what we understand
in fake news, but fake quotes, fake audio files.
Over time, there’s going to be fake visuals,
fake video, and the ability to
authenticate data content by
linking it back to users without
exposing the privacy of those
users is a very attractive proposition.
Because you can say, okay, well, you know, that
actually did not come from the phone they're
suggesting it came from. And we don't need
to actually reveal anyone's
data, we just know that it's a
non-authenticated image, and therefore highly,
much more structured, much more suspect.
So I think
not just social
media, but the ability to authenticate in a
courtroom, actual content, like did the person
say that. You may know as well as I would if you
go and look for, like videos that are faking what
politicians are saying you're getting increasingly
persuasive looking and sounding stuff, and so
authenticating while preserving privacy, highly
attractive, particularly in context of social
media.
CRAIG
Yeah, but are there conversations going on with
any of those social media platforms about this
technology?
SINA
No, we haven't had direct
conversations. But I think that
would be really attractive. Our focus over the
past two or three years has been completely on the
computer science and converting it into sort of an
engineering reality. But now's the time,
you know, and I think we'd be
very interested in talking to Elon
over at Twitter, or any of these platforms
about integrating this to provide their,
their use of better
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
experience. I mean, there's just
no way they're monetizing data.
And that is their business model in
many ways. But there are things
happening on social media,
that is not the intent of the owners of
these social media platforms, and that they would
acknowledge as bad and they don't know, they don't
know what to do with it. And they're not
particularly incentivized to know
what to do with it. So, we'd be
very happy to talk about solutions on that front.
CRAIG
Okay, so that's it for this week.
I want to thank Sina for his time.
And I'd like you again to consider
visiting netsuite.com/eyeonai
if you're interested in a full
implementation of Oracle's software with no
down payment, and no interest for six months.
As always, you can find a
transcript of this episode on
our website, eye-on.ai. I find that
you see a lot of things and understand
things reading a transcript that
you miss with purely audio or visual.
And remember, the singularity may not be near,
but AI is changing your world. So, pay attention